---
layout: post
title: "Question F-1: What tools are well-suited for arc42?"
tags: tools
category: tools
---


This is a classical _it depends_ type of question. Ask three different people, get at least five different (and most likely conflicting) answers...

* As arc42 documentation should always be a combination of text, tables and diagrams, a combination of different tools will often be a better choice than trying to get everything from a single tool (although tool vendors will tell you a different story)
* Often, (UML) modeling tools come with an abundance of functions and _very_ limited usability. Their learning curve is high and might frustrate many. Overall, team acceptance tends to be low. Despite these usabilty shortcomigs we usually prefer _real_ modeling tools over a pure graphics editor, especially for their better model consistency.
* Text processors (like Microsoft Word(R) or Open/Libre-Office) are _omnipresent_ (practically all stakeholders can use them), but developers and other techies often _don't love them_. Text processing tools provide limited team- and collaboration features, no real diff/merge, difficult to automate and are difficult to integrate with other tools. Nevertheless arc42 works with this category of tools without hassle.
* Plaintext-based approaches (like Markdown or AsciiDoc) in combination with graphics-tools (for smaller systems) or modelling tools (for medium to large systems) allow for documentation _close-to-source-code_ and a high degree of automatability - therefore they tend to enjoy high acceptance with development teams.
* We love the combination of wiki plus graphics- or modelling tool. You can generate stakeholder-specific artifacts or pdf from modern wiki systems (like Confluence).
