---
layout: post
title: "Question F-7: Can we use arc42 with (Atlassian) Confluence&reg; wiki?"
tags: tools wiki confluence
category: tools
permalink: /questions/F-7/
---

[^confluence]: The name and logo of [Confluence&reg;](https://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence) is copyrighted by Atlassian Software. arc42 is neither affiliated with or in any way sponsored by Atlassian Corporation.

Yes - it's a (near-perfect) combination: Confluence&reg;[^confluence] is a powerful, yet easy-to-use
collaboration platform, a "wiki-on-steroids".

You can easily map the arc42 structure on Confluence&reg; pages, and even use
predefined templates to setup the complete arc42 structure in a breath
(see [question F-8 (Confuence tools)](/questions/F-8) for details on available tooling).

> I (Gernot) used Confluence&reg; to generate various stakeholder-specific output from a single Confluence&reg; "arc42 repository", which saved a lot of documentation effort, as the development team needed only to maintain this single source-of-truth.

In Confluence&reg;, you can _tag_ (label, mark) pages, so it becomes very simple to add
arbitrary meta-information to certain parts of your documentation. Use this e.g. to
add version/release-specific information, or to distinguish between "already-implemented"
and "planned-for-the-future" information.

Confluence&reg; does not (!) provide out-of-the-box diagramming features, but numerous
tools are available to the rescue, see [question F-9 (Confluence&reg; Diagramming tools)](/questions/F-9) for details).
